Add cookbook to run Outlines with BentoML and BentoCloud (#1)
larme/outlines: docs/cookbook/deploy-using-bentoml.md

# Run Outlines using BentoML

> [BentoML](https://bentoml.com/) is an open-source model serving library for building performant and scalable AI applications with Python. It comes with tools that you need for serving optimization, model packaging, and production deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[BentoML](https://github.com/bentoml/BentoML) is an open-source model serving library for building performant and scalable AI applications with Python. It comes with tools that you need for serving optimization, model packaging, and production deployment.
```

> In this guide, we will show you how you can use BentoML to run programs written with Outlines on GPU locally and in the cloud. The example source codes in this guide are also available at [examples/bentoml/](https://github.com/outlines-dev/outlines/blob/main/examples/bentoml/) directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will show you how to use BentoML to run programs written with Outlines on GPU locally and in [BentoCloud](https://www.bentoml.com/), an AI Inference Platform for enterprise AI teams. The example source code in this guide is also available in the [examples/bentoml/](https://github.com/outlines-dev/outlines/blob/main/examples/bentoml/) directory.
```

> ## Import model
> 
> First we need to download the Mistral-7B-v0.1 model and import the model into BentoML's model store. Let's install the BentoML and other dependencies from PyPi (preferably in a virtual environment):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Import a model

First we need to download an LLM (Mistral-7B-v0.1 in this example and you can use any other LLM) and import the model into BentoML's [Model Store](https://docs.bentoml.com/en/latest/guides/model-store.html). Let's install BentoML and other dependencies from PyPi (preferably in a virtual environment):
```

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> Then save the code snippet below as `import_model.py` and run `python import_model.py`

Reviewer: I tried and it looks like users need to gain access first or the download will fail.

```suggestion
Then save the code snippet below as `import_model.py` and run `python import_model.py`.

**Note**: You need to accept related conditions on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1) first to gain access to Mistral-7B-v0.1.
```

```python
import bentoml

MODEL_ID = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1"
BENTO_MODEL_TAG = MODEL_ID.lower().replace("/", "--")

def import_model(model_id, bento_model_tag):

    import torch
    from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

    tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(MODEL_ID)
    model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
        MODEL_ID,
        torch_dtype=torch.float16,
        low_cpu_mem_usage=True,
    )

    with bentoml.models.create(bento_model_tag) as bento_model_ref:
        tokenizer.save_pretrained(bento_model_ref.path)
        model.save_pretrained(bento_model_ref.path)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import_model(MODEL_ID, BENTO_MODEL_TAG)
```

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps add a result here to let users verify the model is locally available.

```suggestion

You can verify the download is successful by running:

```bash
$ bentoml models list

Tag                                          Module  Size        Creation Time
mistralai--mistral-7b-v0.1:m7lmf5ac2cmubnnz          13.49 GiB   2024-04-25 06:52:39
```
```

> ## Define BentoML service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define a BentoML Service

As the model is ready, we can define a [BentoML Service](https://docs.bentoml.com/en/latest/guides/services.html) to wrap the capabilities of the model.
```

```python
DEFAULT_SCHEMA = """{
    "title": "Character",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "name": {
            "title": "Name",
            "maxLength": 10,
            "type": "string"
        },
        "age": {
            "title": "Age",
            "type": "integer"
        },
        "armor": {"$ref": "#/definitions/Armor"},
        "weapon": {"$ref": "#/definitions/Weapon"},
        "strength": {
            "title": "Strength",
            "type": "integer"
        }
    },
    "required": ["name", "age", "armor", "weapon", "strength"],
    "definitions": {
        "Armor": {
            "title": "Armor",
            "description": "An enumeration.",
            "enum": ["leather", "chainmail", "plate"],
            "type": "string"
        },
        "Weapon": {
            "title": "Weapon",
            "description": "An enumeration.",
            "enum": ["sword", "axe", "mace", "spear", "bow", "crossbow"],
            "type": "string"
        }
    }
}"""
```

> First, we need to define a BentoML service by decorating an ordinary class (`Outlines` here) with `@bentoml.service` decorator. We pass to this decorator some configuration and GPU on which we want this service to run in BentoCloud (here an L4 with 24GB memory):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a BentoML Service, you decorate an ordinary class (`Outlines` here) with `@bentoml.service` decorator. We pass some configuration to this decorator and set the GPU on which we want this Service to run in BentoCloud (here an L4 with 24GB memory):
```

```python
import typing as t
import bentoml

from import_model import BENTO_MODEL_TAG

@bentoml.service(
    traffic={
        "timeout": 300,
    },
    resources={
        "gpu": 1,
        "gpu_type": "nvidia-l4",
    },
)
class Outlines:

    bento_model_ref = bentoml.models.get(BENTO_MODEL_TAG)

    def __init__(self) -> None:

        import outlines
        import torch
        self.model = outlines.models.transformers(
            self.bento_model_ref.path,
            device="cuda",
            model_kwargs={"torch_dtype": torch.float16},
        )

    ...
```

We then need to define an HTTP endpoint using `@bentoml.api` to decorate the method `generate` of `Outlines` class:

```python
    ...

    @bentoml.api
    async def generate(
        self,
        prompt: str = "Give me a character description.",
        json_schema: t.Optional[str] = DEFAULT_SCHEMA,
    ) -> t.Dict[str, t.Any]:

        import outlines

        generator = outlines.generate.json(self.model, json_schema)
        character = generator(prompt)

        return character
```

> Here `@bentoml.api` decorator defines `generate` as an HTTP endpoint that accept a JSON request body with 2 fields: `prompt` and `json_schema` (optional, which let http client to provide their own JSON schema). The type hints in the function signature will be used to validate incoming JSON request. You can define as many HTTP endpoints as you want by using `@bentoml.api` to decorate other methods of `Outlines` class.
> 
> Now you can save the above codes to `service.py` (or use [this implementation](https://github.com/outlines-dev/outlines/blob/main/examples/bentoml/)). Let's now see how to run the code on the cloud using the BentoML CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here `@bentoml.api` decorator defines `generate` as an HTTP endpoint that accepts a JSON request body with two fields: `prompt` and `json_schema` (optional, which allows HTTP clients to provide their own JSON schema). The type hints in the function signature will be used to validate incoming JSON requests. You can define as many HTTP endpoints as you want by using `@bentoml.api` to decorate other methods of `Outlines` class.

Now you can save the above code to `service.py` (or use [this implementation](https://github.com/outlines-dev/outlines/blob/main/examples/bentoml/)), and run the code using the BentoML CLI.
```

## Run locally for testing and debugging

Then you can run a server locally by:

```bash
bentoml serve .
```

The server is now active at <http://localhost:3000>. You can interact with it using the Swagger UI or in other different ways:

<details>

<summary>CURL</summary>

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \

>   'http://rtxbox.jkdf.win:3000/generate' \

Reviewer: Maybe not expose the host name here...😄

```suggestion
  'http://localhost:3000/generate' \
```

  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "prompt": "Give me a character description."
}'
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>Python client</summary>

```python
import bentoml

with bentoml.SyncHTTPClient("http://localhost:3000") as client:
    response = client.generate(
        prompt="Give me a character description"
    )
    print(response)
```

</details>

> 

Reviewer: Add an example output here to let users know what they can expect.

```suggestion
Expected output:

```bash
{
  "name": "Aura",
  "age": 15,
  "armor": "plate",
  "weapon": "sword",
  "strength": 20
}
```
```

> ## Deploy to the cloud
> 
> After the Service is ready, you can deploy the application to BentoCloud for better management and scalability. [Sign up](https://www.bentoml.com/) if you haven't got a BentoCloud account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy to BentoCloud

After the Service is ready, you can deploy it to [BentoCloud](https://docs.bentoml.com/en/latest/bentocloud/get-started.html) for better management and scalability. [Sign up](https://cloud.bentoml.com/signup) if you haven't got a BentoCloud account.
```
